Okay, so we're gonna start on Moodle.JSX.
So, the way that you want to do
a migration from a JSX to a TSX
codebase is you just say everything
that is not in there does
not have a TSX file,
is not strictly checked, right?
So I'm gonna go here into MoodleJSX and
I'm just gonna modify this
from JSX to TSX, right?
And then all of a sudden I'm gonna start
getting a ton of errors here of like,
hey, you need to fix this, right?
Okay.
So I'm just getting a bunch
of type TypeScript here.
Like HTML development is not assignable
to type nu that these are all good
errors for us.
So, let's just start,
piece by piece going through this.
Get rid of react there,
because we're not using it.
Use effect, use ref,
we're gonna import mutable,
object ref, and react element from here
And that all looks good.
We're gonna say that children
here are they are react elements.
That's a return type, not out.
Actually, what we wanted there,
inside here, rather, okay?
So, the first thing we're gonna say
here is these children coming in from
as properties.
They're gonna be react elements.
And react elements is basically
anything that react can render,
which is gonna be something
of either JXS type.
It could be a null,
it could be a bunch of stuff like that.
So now we know if you mouse over children,
we know that for
a fact this is a react element,
which is cool.
Okay, next thing we're
gonna say is this LREF here
is going to be a mutable ref object,
which we have up here, right?
But we're gonna tell it what type
of thing it's going to contain,
and it's either going to
contain an HTML div object.
So HTML div element or you can see
here we instantiate with null, so
we have to say or this is null.
Okay, and then now if I mouse over L ref,
I can see that it's either an HTML div or
it's a null.
And so that means here that's what
I have to do this check here.
Now you can see here that every
time that I refer to eLRef.current,
I can be guaranteed every single
time after this point that
it's going to be an HTML
development which is great.
Cool Okay,
let's go down to our use effect here.
First thing we're gonna say here is,
every time that you query the DOM for
here from Get Elements by ID,
it can give you back null, right?
Just in theory if the HTML doesn't have
modal element, it's gonna be null,
so we have to be defensive about that and say
if modal route or No eLREF.current.
Then here we're just going to say return,
right?
If either one of those doesn't exist
anymore, then we're gonna be just say,
0kay, well, no,
we're not going to do that.
Now I'm guaranteed here that model is
definitely an HTML element because if it
was null it would not get past this point.
So that's why that works.
Here we have to again be
a little bit more defensive here,
and this return function here.
So we just have to say if
there is no modal route,
or rather, if there is no eLRef.current.
Then, if there is,
then go ahead and remove it.
There we go, okay?
And now this Model.tsx looks good.
So all of these,
if statements you're gonna find here,
this is very common theme with
particularly when you're porting an old
JavaScript type code base where you can
be kind of loose with your types, right?
Here I wasn't being defensive about
model route never being there because
I literally wrote the HTML
that has it there.
So I'm not really concerned
about it being removed, right?
It's that therefore I was not
very defensive about it, but
TypeScript is going to be
making me very precise about.
Nope, we have to provide for
all the cases because we do not
allow runtime errors like that
Cool Any questions
about this makes sense All right,
so that is modal.
Now the question you might ask me is,
how do I decide what order
to migrate files to?
The easiest thing to migrate is model
itself doesn't really depend on
any other of my code, right?
It's kind of a leaf node in the sense
of this modal is not importing
a bunch of other stuff.
Therefore, it makes it a good
candidate for me to type.
Because once I finish typing this, you can
see this actually has no errors anymore,
right, because it's not importing
anything that doesn't use TypeScript.
As opposed, if I went and
typed app.jsx for a moment.
This imports from adopted pet context
from details from search params, so even
after I finished migrating these files,
I would still have type errors, right?
Because these are untyped therefore
the strict type checking from
TypeScript is not going to allow
these to go without an error.
It's fine, you can still do it but, I like
the fact that I'm done with modal.tsx
here and I'm totally done with it.
I don't have to do anything more for it.
This is totally free of type errors.
If I go do app right now,
I'm gonna finish it and
there's still gonna be type errors,
which is less fun, I suppose.